(Denial Of Service Attacks) is a type of attack on a computer or server in the Internet network by spending resources (resource) owned by that computer until the computer is not able to function properly thus indirectly prevents others to gain access to services from the attacked computer.
So in a Denial of Service attack, the hacker or attacker will try to prevent invalid or authorized user access to the system or network by using techniques such as:
Flooding the network traffic with a lot of data so that network traffic comes from authorized users or the invalid can not log into the network system. This technique is commonly called Traffic Flooding.
Flooding the network with a lot of requests to a network service disedakan by a host so that requests are coming from authorized users or invalid can not be served by such services. This technique is called Request Flooding.
Interfere with communication between a host and its clients are registered under a lot of ways, including by changing the system configuration information or as much physical damage server components.
The characteristics of DOS attack initially occur on networks where a hacker or cracker try to exploit the weakness of TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is called SYN Flooding Attack, then the course was created as well attacks on exploitation weakness Operating System, network services or applications system even the tools used were the more even can be obtained free of charge.
DOS attacks are one-on-one so that only need a computer / host good solid hardware, OS and applications to be able to host traffic to flood victims so as to prevent illegal or invalid user to access the server.
While the DDoS attack (Distributed Denial Of Service) is using more sophisticated techniques than the DOS attack, namely increasing attacks by using multiple computers at once, which would cause the entire server or network segments can be totally dead.
DDOS can be said is a simple thing but its impact can be very critical and very troublesome network administrators to perform repairs. Therefore do not be attempted lightly.
Running tools that will automatically scan the network to find hosts that have gaps (vulnerable). After a gap / weakness host is found, the tool can install one kind of Trojan Horse called a DDoS Trojan, who will lead the hosts into zombies that can be controlled / diremote remotely by a master computer used by the hacker or cracker to launch an attack. Some of the tools used for DDOS is a TFN, TFN2K, Trinoo, and Stacheldraht, which can be downloaded for free.
Then, tetika hacker or cracker feels she gets sufficient number of hosts to serve as zombies in an attack, the hacker or cracker will use the master computer to provide network signals an attack against the victim or the victim host. These attacks are usually carried out by using some form of SYN Flood or scheme DoS attacks are simple, but because it is done by a lot of zombie hosts the amount of network traffic that is created is very large, so spend all the resources TCP contained in the computer or the target tissue, resulting host or network downtime.
Almost all computer platforms can be hijacked as zombies to attack. Operating systems such as Windows, Solaris, Linux and several UNIX variants can be a zombie if the system or applications running on it has loopholes or weaknesses.

references :Wikipedia
http://tipsntrickstenan.blogspot.co.id/2014/10/apa-dan-bagaimana-cara-kerja-serangan.html#.WCx2GDYViM8
