Security and confidentiality of data is often a problem difficult to solve. Because of the importance of evolving technology today security has become vital in the world of computer networks. Cases involving job security becomes fairly difficult and mostly require no small cost to its handling. Systems vital systems or systems important system that is being subjected to further improve security. This is because the computer network is growing and progressing every time, so that anyone, anywhere, and anytime can access to multiple systems security systems that are less vital. Data security and others are intended to protect proprietary data from unauthorized people from accessing and damaging or removing or the other. Computer network security is to ensure that the data or information can not be read or modifikai by people not authorized to do so.
Explanations and solutions to problems
Network security is a method or an attempt to protect or secure the network from external threats that will cause problems, such as damaging, deleting, etc. In network security, we often hear the term OSI layer and TCP / IP layer.
Layer OSI stands for Open Systems Interconnection. Osi layer contained in the coating layer 7. Osi layer is usually used only for instructional or educational purposes due to the osi layer is too ideal to be applied.
TCP / IP layer stands for Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol. Tcp / ip layer is composed of four layers. Tcp / ip layer is commonly used today. I will further explain about tcp / ip layer because it is commonly used today.
In the tcp / ip layer there is a layer application layer, transport layer, Internet / IP, and network access interface. Application is usually used for standard communication protocols such as http or to be in port 80, ftp is in port 21, and others. Transport layer useless for data transmission such as tcp and udp, tcp abbreviation of transmission control protocol whereas UDP datagram protocol unit stands in that the data will get delivered when disturbed disturbed then the data will be truncated. Internet / IP or internet protocol address examples protocol that was called ip 192.168.1.0. Network access interface or a physical communication. Mac address is also used at this layer. Using arp to classify ip address into the mac address.
Conclusions and recommendations
Network security in computer networks is essential to protect the data and information that can not be accessed by people who do not have the right authority.
Suggestion
Network security is still difficult to overcome because of the rapid development of technology that makes people easy to access any such information from the Internet, then anyone, anytime, and anywhere can at any time access to data or information that should only be accessed by certain parties boeh only.
References:
http://sudahkelasduabelas.blogspot.co.id/2013/07/pengertian-keamanan-jaringan-network.html
http://serbailmukomputer.blogspot.co.id/2015/03/pengertian-dan-fungsi-lapisan-layer-osi.html
http://fnasrullah-squeeze.blogspot.co.id/2013/05/4-lapisan-layer-pada-tcpip.html
