Cryptography, in general is the science and art to maintain the confidentiality of news (Bruce Schneier - Applied Cryptography). In addition there is also a sense that sense the study of mathematical techniques related to aspects of information security such as data confidentiality, data authenticity, data integrity, and authentication of data (A. Menezes, P. van Oorschot and S. Vanstone - Handbook of Applied Cryptography ). Not all aspects of information security is handled by cryptography.
      There are four fundamental purpose of the science of cryptography which is also a security aspect of information, namely:
• Confidentiality is a service that is used to keep the contents of the information from anyone except those having authority or a secret key to open / peel the information that has been encoded.
• Data integrity, is associated with the data is secure from unauthorized changes. To maintain the integrity of the data, the system must have the ability to detect the manipulation of data by parties who are not entitled to, among other things insertion, deletion, and other data pensubsitusian into the actual data.
• Authentication, is associated with the identification / recognition, either as a whole system as well as the information itself. Two parties communicating must be introduced themselves. Information submitted via the canal must be authenticated authenticity, data contents, delivery time, and others.
• Non-repudiation, or nirpenyangkalan is an attempt to prevent the denial of shipments / creation of an information by the transmit / make.
